# OpenAI Paper Pal

OpenAI Paper Pal is a Python application that enables you to load a PDF document and ask questions about its content using natural language. This powerful application utilizes a Large Language Model (LLM) to generate responses specific to your PDF. The LLM employed by OpenAI Paper Pal is designed to answer questions that are relevant to the document, ignoring queries unrelated to the PDF.

## How it Works

OpenAI Paper Pal operates by following these steps:

1. The application reads the PDF file and breaks down its text into smaller, manageable chunks.
2. These text chunks are then processed using OpenAI embeddings, which create vector representations of the chunks.
3. The application compares the user's question with the vector representations of the text chunks, identifying the chunks that are semantically similar to the query.
4. The selected text chunks are passed through the Language Model to generate a response tailored to the user's question.

This workflow ensures that OpenAI Paper Pal provides accurate and informative answers based on the specific content of the PDF.

## Installation

To install OpenAI Paper Pal, please follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository to your local machine.
2. Navigate to the project directory and install the required dependencies by running the following command:

```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

3. Additionally, you need to add your OpenAI API key to the `.env` file in the project directory.

## Usage

To utilize OpenAI Paper Pal, follow these instructions:

1. Make sure you have installed Streamlit by running the following command:

```
pip install streamlit
```

2. Run the `main.py` file using the Streamlit command-line interface (CLI) with the following command:

```
streamlit run app.py
```

3. This will launch the Graphical User Interface (GUI) created with Streamlit, providing you with a user-friendly interface to interact with OpenAI Paper Pal.

Feel free to explore your PDFs, ask questions using natural language, and receive informative answers generated by the Language Model.

Remember to provide your PDFs and questions in a format that allows for accurate analysis and comprehension by the application.

Enjoy using OpenAI Paper Pal for your PDF-based inquiries!
